Hi there and welcome back.
In this video we're talking about timezones.
If you've never heard of a timezone before
that's a bit strange,
but a timezone is essentially a slice of the world
where it is a time at any point in time,
and the time differs between other timezones.
That's substantially what they are
so there's a lot of timezones,
there's a lot of countries in the world
and of course the time here in the UK
is not the same time as in for example in Madrid,
is not the same time as in Shanghai.
So the times are different of course because
we generally want there to be sunlight during the day
and we generally want it to be dark during the night,
so not every country is light during the same time
some countries are dark when here it is light and so forth.
So the time varies depending in where you are in the world
at any given point.
So some countries have actually many timezones,
for example the United States has a few timezones
as you go from left to right is a very large country.
So sometimes the time changes when you are
within the same country, that's fine.
However some very large countries only have one timezone.
For example India,
is an example.
And which can be a bit strange
because of course
when you are at the left most part of the country
it is a given time, and if you where to teleport
to the rightmost part of the country it may be dark,
but it's still the same time.
Normally the difference between two adjacent timezones
is of one hour.
That's just the most common thing,
so for example I am in one timezone here in the UK,
the adjacent timezone is sort of European West Time Zone
like Madrid and Germany.
And the difference between here and there is one hour.
However something that a lot of people don't know
is that sometimes the difference
between two adjacent timezones can be less than that,
it can be 15 minutes, it can be 30 minutes,
it can be 45 minutes.
So timezones are not all that stable,
and also some countries pick out a time
and a timezone because it suits them
sometimes politically,
sometimes to be in the same time as
neighbour countries that they have good relations with,
so forth.
So the timezone is not really
well it is sort of depending on your position in the world
but it's not really depending on your position in the world
so it is dependent on the country
that you're in essentially.
So what time is it right now?
My computer says
it is 2018 February 11th, at 10:34 a.m.
But of course to you,
if you were watching this live right now
to you that might be a lie.
For example if you were in America at this time
the time could be 2:00 a.m.
So this is a lie, unless I tell you where I am.
If I tell you where I am
then I'm not saying that the current time is 10:34 for you
I'm just saying the current time is 10:34 for me
in my current location.
So the current time right now
is 10:34 in UK/London,
and the timezone for this is called (GMT).
But is actually 11:34 in Spain/Madrid
where the current time is Central Eastern,
or Central European, The Central European Time,
I'm pretty sure The Central European, never mind.
Central European Time.
However is 2:34 a.m. in San Francisco which has a (PST),
and it's half six in China/Shanghai
where they have Chinese Standard Time.
So you can see that is the time right now.
Any of those is correct,
because I'm telling you the time
and also the timezone.
That way for you
when you know the timezone you can convert
my current time into your current time without a problem.
So the question becomes
can you never speak of dates without mentioning a timezone?
No.
You cannot.
However,
there is a central reference point that everyone can use.
Normally when we don't say the timezone
we must imply it, we must say
we don't mention the timezone
because this is the sort of the default timezone.
And so that is UTC,
and which stands for Coordinated Universal Time.
And yeah, I don't understand the acronym.
But actually that's also a sort of a lie
I can understand the acronym
you can Google it if you're interested
in what the acronym means, it doesn't mean anything.
But, nonetheless there is a central reference point
so normally when we don't specify a time
that's because we mean UTC,
which is the Central Time.
And the Central Time here UTC
is based not on political reasons
so it doesn't depend on the country,
it was decided and it sort of depends on a few factors.
So the central referent point is important
because when we talk about timezones
like for examples CET,
we say that it is relative to UTC by one hour.
GMT is relative to UTC by zero hours
and so forth.
So every timezone is related to UTC
in how far away they are from it.
UTC passes thought Greenwich in the UK.
So, the date and times in Python
there are two types of date and time entities,
there is the date and times object in Python
that does not know about timezones,
and that is called a "naïve" date and time object.
You can create one like this,
you can say from datetime import datetime
and do something like print datetime.now.
That is going to give you the current time
in your computer,
but it's not gonna tell you what timezone that's in.
So not that useful I would say.
Because for example if you were to save that
into a file or a database
when you come back to it
you won't really know
if that was the current time in your computer,
or the current time in somebody else's computer,
and how that relates to the current time in your computer.
You don't know exactly what time it was.
One date and time object that does know about timezones
is called an aware object,
because it is sort of more "aware" of the world around it.
And in order to create one of them
you can do from datetime import datetime and timezone,
and you can print datetime.now
but giving it the timezone.utc
and that's gonna give you the current time
in the UTC timezone which as I said is the Central timezone.
As an aside
UTC is not actually a timezone,
so it's just a central point
and in the Python datetime library,
what we're importing here
it is treated as a timezone
but it's not actually a timezone,
there is no country that uses UTC as their time.
And but it is the central reference point
and is really an important thing.
So in the next video
were going to talk about dates and times in Python
and how I advice that you work with them.
Now dates and times are a bit of a thorny issue
and a bit of a difficult one at that.
And there's a lot of different libraries that you can use
to manage dates and times in Python.
The built in date library
is pretty good,
but it doesn't support some things
and it supports other things.
So there's also a bit of a trade off
to do between datetime libraries.
If you find that what you want to do with date and times
is difficult with the included datetime library,
feel free to look into other libraries
which also can help you.
An example of such a library is one called Arrow,
that can be quite an interesting library to use as well.
Nonetheless in this course we're gonna talk about
what comes with Python,
just because it is pretty powerful
and it does a lot of the things we need.
And which includes reading dates and times,
understanding when a user types a date and a time
what it means,
exporting dates and times
and printing them out to users nicely,
calculating this in times
and for example what time will it be tomorrow
at this time,
or what date will it be tomorrow at this time,
and so forth.
Is quite a lot of stuff we can do with a datetime library,
so let's go can twit
in the very next video.
I'll see you there.